Create ui-c8y-1024-1-0-read-only-editor-preview-and-add-jump-to-repository-button.md (#4899)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/ui-c8y-1024-1-0-read-only-editor-preview-and-add-jump-to-repository-button.md

---
date: ""

> title: Syntax highlighting in configuration preview and edit in repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Syntax highlighting in configuration preview and new edit in repository option
```

> title: Syntax highlighting in configuration preview and new edit in repository option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Syntax highlighting in configuration preview and new edit option
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-6359
version: 1024.1.0
---

> In the **Device management** application, the read-only configuration preview on a device's **Configurations** tab now applies syntax highlighting. Snapshots retrieved from a device are shown in a syntax-highlighted editor, with the correct language applied automatically based on the file type, making them easier to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Device management application, the read-only configuration preview on a device's **Configurations** tab now applies syntax highlighting. Snapshots retrieved from a device are shown in a syntax-highlighting editor, with the correct language applied automatically based on the file type, making them easier to read.
```

---
date: ""

> title: Read only editor preview and add jump to repository button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Syntax highlighting in configuration preview and edit in repository
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-6359
version: 1024.1.0
---
# Backport

This will backport the following commits from `develop` to `release/cd`:
- [feat(Device Management): [DM-6359] Read only editor preview and add
jump to repository
button](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/cumulocity-ui/pull/12413)

<!--- Backport version: unknown -->

### Questions ?
Please refer to the [Backport tool
documentation](https://github.com/sorenlouv/backport)

[DM-6359]:
https://cumulocity.atlassian.net/browse/DM-6359?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiNWRkNTljNzYxNjVmNDY3MDlhMDU5Y2ZhYzA5YTRkZjUiLCJwIjoiZ2l0aHViLWNvbS1KU1cifQ

> Co-authored-by: Bozhidar Dedov <95280800+bozhidardedov@users.noreply.github.com>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the **Device management** application, the read-only configuration preview on a device's **Configurations** tab now applies syntax highlighting. Snapshots retrieved from a device are shown in a syntax-highlighted editor, with the correct language applied automatically based on the file type, making them easier to read.

A new **Edit in repository** button lets you edit an available configuration and save it to the repository before it is sent to the device. It opens a drawer that is pre-filled with the selected configuration, where you can review and adjust it.

The **Save to repository** action now lets you edit the configuration retrieved from the device before it is saved to the repository, so you can adjust a snapshot on the way in instead of saving it as-is.
```
